[AUDIO LOGO]
>> What is alchemy?
And how did the Templars
become proficient
in the practice of it?
I'm Timothy Hogan, Grandmaster
of the Knights Templar.
>> And I'm Scott Wolter,
a forensic geologist
and a Knights Templar.
And this is "Mysteries
of the Knights Templar."
[MUSIC PLAYING]
One of the main technologies
that the Templars rediscovered
and implemented was
the science of alchemy.
But what is alchemy?
>> Alchemy was the
precursor to chemistry.
In fact, the word chemistry
comes from alchemistry.
And the word alchemy
or alchemistry
itself comes from
chem or chemit, which
was the ancient name for Egypt.
It was believed to be
a science from Egypt
that had to do with the
science of transmutation
or taking something
of lesser value
and transmuting it
into greater value,
whether that be taking lead
into gold, which is the most
popular conception of it.
But also creating medicines.
Taking an herb and
turning it into a medicine
that can heal the body.
Ultimately, it was also a
metaphor for the transformation
of consciousness.
So transforming
the consciousness
from a base state to one of
a more enlightened state,
shall we say?
Again, one of the things that
the Templars rediscovered
was this science of producing
monoatomic elements, yes which
they referred to as manna.
They knew this was the
manna of the Bible.
But they also believed that
there are evidence of this
all throughout the Torah
or the Old Testament
where, for example, Moses
took the Golden calf
and burned it into a powder to
feed to the wandering Hebrews.
Where the Templars
recognized this as, Oh,
probably this art of alchemy.
I mean, a modern scientist would
look at first and be like, oh,
this is just proof that the
Bible is-- there's nothing--
>> It's just made-up stories.
>> It's made-up stories.
But the alchemists
understand, so actually,
Yeah, there is a
way you can convert
metallic gold and other platinum
metals into this white powder.
And other societies have
been working with it,
I mean, the manna
of the Bible which
was this monoatomic elements.
It had a twofold process.
On the one hand, it
was superconductive.
And so if it went into something
like a capacitor like the ark,
it would cause the ark to
produce a tremendous amount
of electricity.
So that was on the one hand.
On the other hand,
it also seemed
to make the body
more conductive.
So when people ingested
it, it would heal the body.
>> Is this why we get statements
in the Bible talking about
certain pharaohs and
people living to be 150,
200 and longer years?
Is manna the reason for this?
And could it actually be true?
>> I think there could
be something to it.
Certainly, we know
the Egyptian pharaohs
were producing this substance.
We find it in Egypt being
described on the temple walls.
All the places that
the Templars set up
bases of operation
in Egypt, including
their commander at Philae,
at the Temple of Isis,
at the Temple of
Hathor, Dendera,
places like Edfu, Esna, Abydos.
They all had
depicted on the walls
this process of not only
extracting this manna, which
they depicted as conical
cakes, because when
it's formed, when it's produced,
when it's extracted out
of things in a jar, that's
actually the shape it forms.
So not only was it depicted
on these temple walls,
but it was usually
depicted next to arks
that were also being depicted.
Now the Egyptians name for
it was they called it mfkzt.
And sometimes they refer to
it as white cake or white gold
cake.
And we find this in the
hieroglyphs as well.
>> When I think about
gold in the ancient world
and the treasures that
included gold, I mean,
we automatically think
that it has monetary value.
But now we have to
rethink that because it's
a lot like having
a stack of wood
that eventually you're
going to set fire to that's
going to create warmth.
So you see this
wood pile as energy.
Well, isn't that
the same thing now?
Shouldn't we be thinking
of metallic gold
as really a wood pile of energy
that's going to power the ark
and be ingested into bodies to
help prolong heal and extend
life?
>> It's a great analogy.
And we see this same idea
being incorporated and passed
on by other ancient cultures.
In fact, in ancient Sumer, the
science of alchemy was known
as gra.al, G-R-A.AL.
Probably the origin
of the word Grail.
And in fact, even in Wolfram
von Eschenbach's book, Parzival
that was published in the
1200s, it specifically
says that the Knights Templar
are the Guardians of the Holy
Grail.
And it describes the
Grail as a stone that
burns the Phoenix to ashes after
which it comes back renewed
and it restores
health and vitality
to the Templars
who live off of it.
Well, this is an
alchemical metaphor.
I mean, it's literally
talking alchemy.
>> I mean, it's describing
the processes of alchemy.
>> It's exactly right.
What we know is manna
amongst the Hebrews
is found amongst the Sumerians
as being called shi mana.
And the shi mana was
also said to help
power the flying crafts that
the Anunnaki, or the gods,
were flying around in.
And again, remember,
the equal armed cross
that the Anunnaki used was
adopted by the Templars
too for that.
>> And this goes all the way
back to being the national
symbol, if you will,
of the Atlanteans.
>> That's exactly right.
And we find it not only in
this region of the Middle East,
but we find it as
far away as India.
In India, we find it
being called mani.
So instead of manna, it's
mani or sometimes Cintamani.
And in some of the
Vedic texts, it also
talks about Vimanas, which was
these same flying craft, as we
find in the shi manas of Sumer.
But this is the Vedic
tradition of it.
But the commonality
here is the word manna.
Now the Templars, they came
out of Albigensian families,
the original Templars.
Those Albigensians, or Cathars,
they had a ceremony as well,
which was a
communion rite, which
involved using this manna
in the form of communion.
And they called it the
Manisola Ceremony, which
of course, again mani, manna.
And then in the
Polynesian cultures,
ancient Polynesian cultures,
we find the same idea being
utilized in the name of manna.
So it's the same
substance being described
in all of these
ancient cultures, which
suggests quite
strongly that there was
a common root for this science.
And this is what brings
us back to Atlantis.
>> Yes.
It's just another
piece of evidence
that ties this thing together.
Tim, if I may.
I have a beautiful
green tablet here,
and this is something
that is actually
mentioned in our treasure list
that is in some other documents
that we have.
And it mentions
the Emerald tablet.
So I know that this has
a connection with Egypt.
Please share.
>> Well, according to
tradition, this tablet is known
as the Emerald tablet of Hermes.
It's an instruction
panel for how
to produce something known
as the philosopher's stone.
The philosopher's
stone was said to be
able to transmute base metals
into gold, heal the body,
and awaken consciousness
more, which
if you were able to
do all these things,
you would truly be a
master of this world.
So that was one of
the goals of alchemy.
But this tablet was said to
have been produced in antiquity
by Hermes or Hermes
Trismegistus,
as he's sometimes called, Hermes
the Thrice Great or Thrice
Illustrious, which this
character, by the way,
we also find in Parzival.
In that story Parzival by
Wolfram von Eschenbach,
there's a character known
as Treves the Hermit who
helps to guide Parzival.
Well, Trevrezent means
threefold knower.
And Hermit comes from Hermes.
So Hermes the threefold
knower is Hermes Trismegistus.
>> So obviously, this
is a reproduction.
This is not an original
Emerald Tablet.
And it's certainly not
made of real emerald.
So what exactly is it that
this tablet is made from?
And where is it now?
>> Well, so the actual Emerald
Tablet of Hermes was said
to have been discovered
at Siwa in Egypt.
Some say it was discovered near
Abydos at the Osirion, which
was a place where the alchemical
process was being implemented
in ancient Egypt.
And according to
tradition, that's
also where the god Osiris
was said to be buried.
Supposedly, Alexander the
Great discovered a tomb there
with this Emerald Tablet.
And Aristotle helped
him to translate it.
And this was part
of his own mission.
But the original Emerald
Tablet, we don't think it
was actually made of emerald.
In fact, it was probably
made of a copper acetate,
which looks like emerald.
>> That was made using
an alchemical process.
>> An alchemical process.
That's right.
And this was significant
because if you take copper
and you're able to convert
it to a copper acetate,
then by heating
that copper acetate,
you could actually
very easily extract
copper monoatomic atoms from
it or copper manna, which
was said to help restore
youth and other things
of that nature.
So the Emerald
Tablet that was said
to have been brought
over in the records
and put into one of the
vaults in the Americas
here by the order is said
to be of this copper acetate
substance.
So it's not a real
emerald, but it
fits as an emerald in
terms of a description.
And in fact, even
in again going back
to Wolfram von
Eschenbach's book Parzival,
it describes the
Grail as an emerald
that fell out of Lucifer's crown
when there was a war in heaven.
And it was brought to
Earth by neutral angels,
is what they say.
>> Could that be a metaphor
or an allegory for maybe
an extraterrestrial impact that
brought in different chemistry
than we have here?
>> It absolutely could.
And I think it's also alluding
to this emerald tablet,
this emerald copper
acetate process.
>> Let's talk about the process.
Can you describe the
various stages of alchemy?
>> Yeah.
Different alchemical
texts describe
the process in different ways.
Sometimes there are seven steps,
sometimes there are 12 steps,
depending on how detailed
you want to get in it.
>> And what you're doing, right?
>> And what you're doing.
But ultimately, it
can be broken down
into three main steps
which were known
as digestion, in which the
thing was dissolved in a liquid.
Basically, a liquid
menstruum, a solvent.
So if you were
working with a metal,
you wanted to dissolve
it in an acid.
If you're working
with an herb, you
might want to use
alcohol or even water.
You're trying to digest.
>> Break it down.
>> Break it down, just like your
stomach does with digestion.
The second stage
was distillation.
By heating the
liquid, you extract
the heart and vital parts of
the thing you're working on.
And it turns into a steam.
By heating it, the liquid
turns into a steam,
and then can be collected
into another vessel, which
was fundamental to this.
I mean, it helped to
remove the impurities.
And in fact, the Emerald
Tablet itself mentions,
it says you must
separate the subtle
from the thick and gross.
That's one of the things
it says on the tablet.
And so it's talking
about, how do you liberate
these subtle essences,
the beneficial ones
from the things that
aren't good for us.
So this was one of
the ways to do it.
The final stage of
the alchemical process
then would be calcination,
in which the remaining dross
body that was at the
bottom of the flask
had to be burnt down to ashes.
And those ashes scattered
to the four winds of heaven.
And ultimately, the manna
or the monoatomic elements,
as well as other
beneficial minerals
could be extracted from it.
And this is where you
got your white stone.
And it was believed that
there are allusions to this
in the New Testament as well.
For example, in
Revelations, it says,
"To he who overcometh will
be given the hidden manna
in the precious white stone."
Well, again, it's probably
alluding to this process.
And there are other things too.
Many of the symbolism associated
with even the birth of Jesus
had alchemical undertones
to it that the Templars
came to associate with.
One of the places
you can extract
these monoatomic elements
is from sea salt.
And sometimes this
manna was also
referred to as bread,
manna bread or shewbread
is another name for it.
But in the story of Jesus,
you have the Virgin Mary.
Mary or Maria means
sea or salt water.
And if you heat seawater,
what do you get?
You get an immaculate
conception of salt.
>> Right.
It suddenly crystallizes--
>> It crystallizes.
>> Seemingly out of thin air.
>> That's right.
And salt is a salt cube.
And if you unfold the
cube, you get a cross.
>> You get a cross.
That's right.
>> And hidden within that
cross then is this manna.
And of course, in the story
of the virgin birth of Jesus,
he's born in Bethlehem.
And Bethlehem literally
means house of bread.
So here we have this allusion to
this entire alchemical process.
And it goes even beyond that.
But the Templars saw
this and recognized
there was alchemical metaphors
all throughout the Bible.
And that it alluded
to these processes.
The Templars saw
that the Egyptians,
as they were studying
the temple walls in Egypt
and they saw the alchemical
processes on the walls.
And it had been preserved
for thousands of years.
>> So it wasn't
an original idea.
>> It wasn't an original idea.
>> Following in the footsteps
of what they had discovered
in Egypt.
>> That's right.
They knew that they could
imply Pythagorean ideas,
sacred geometry,
and other things
to build new temples or
cathedrals throughout Europe.
And on them, they could
preserve this knowledge.
And we know one of the things
that scholars have never really
been able to get their
head around is the fact
that, Yes, there are alchemical
processes being outlined on all
the Cathedrals,
there was a author
by the name of Fulcanelli
who was an alchemist who
wrote a book called
Mystery of the Cathedrals
that gets into this very well.
But the only people
that were translating
alchemical Greek and Roman
alchemical texts at the time
were groups like the
Sabians and the Druze
and certain mystic Islamic
groups in the Middle East.
So we need to ask ourselves,
how did this knowledge
that was being translated
in the Middle East
find its way onto the
buildings in places like France
And Medieval France?
Well, the answer
is the only people
that were associating
with these other groups
and building these
cathedrals were the Templars.
If we go back to
the Emerald Tablet,
the Emerald Tablet
literally starts out
saying as above, so below.
That there was a relationship
between the heavens
and the Earth.
This was fundamental to alchemy.
The study of the stars.
In fact, the word Templar
itself comes from Temple.
And the word temple comes from
templum, which means time.
But with time comes
from measuring
the stars, the
procession of the stars.
So the Templar order
was very concerned
with following the stars, not
only for alchemical operations.
But these same
ideas then started
to get applied to
things like navigation.
One of the other groups that the
Templars were associating with
and learning alchemy and
astronomy and astrology from
was the Sabians.
They existed primarily
in Northern Turkey,
in the area of Harrans
near Gobekli Tepe.
And their name, Sabian, probably
comes from the Egyptian word
Saba, which means stargate.
And throughout Egypt and
all of these locations
where these alchemical
processes are being depicted,
the other thing we also find
is this word Saba or stargate
being depicted in the
sanctum sanctorum or Holy
of Holies of these temples.
When we factor in the
other uses of alchemy
found around the ancient world
with the shimana, the vimanas,
these flying crafts.
And let's not forget too
that even Solomon himself,
according to the
Kebra Nagast text,
which is an
Ethiopian text, talks
about how King Solomon
had a flying ship that he
used to fly around to go visit
from Jerusalem to Ethiopia
to visit the Queen
of Sheba regularly.
And we also know, according
to the Torah's, would
receive 666 talents of gold
a year in exchange for bread.
Well, again, bread is a
metaphor for the manna.
And that number 666
in the ancient world
was really the number
of transformation.
So what we're talking about here
is transforming or transmuting
gold into the manna.
And this manna, of
course, was stored
in the ark, which was in
turn stored in the temple.
The temple was built
to store the ark.
>> To house the ark.
>> Exactly.
But it could also be used
for Solomon's flying ship.
This goes back to that
levitation properties of manna.
>> So let me ask you this.
When-- well, in church when they
talk about the wine represents
the blood of Christ and the
bread represents his body,
is this going back to this
whole alchemical process
of manna and transmutation?
>> Yes.
According to the
Templar tradition,
the original communion
rites, the Eucharist that's
practiced within Christianity
and was practiced
in the ancient world by
the ancient Egyptians,
the Babylonians, and
others, the Mithraic cults,
they all had these
similar communion rites.
But originally, we believe based
on what we see in the temple
walls that the bread, the
original bread for this
was this manna, these
monatomic elements.
And if you tweak those
elements that particular way,
you can transmute
them and turn them
into this red substance,
which the Templars came
to call the Red Lion or
sometimes the blood of Christ,
because it looks and
tastes like blood.
And it was said
it heals the body.
So this was the
original communion.
Ingesting it helped to heal
the body, awaken consciousness
to the bigger order.
And again, this
is something found
throughout the ancient world.
Another example of
this, the Cintamani
that's found within the
ancient Indian traditions.
And also ancient Chinese
and Manichaean traditions
that moved up into Tibet
also make reference to it.
But what it suggestive of is
that the ingestion of this
actually helps to stimulate
the pineal gland, which
is the radio receiver
for the environment.
The pineal gland, as it
picks up subtle vibrations
from the environment around
it, it releases melatonin.
Melatonin is the body's
best natural antioxidant.
But it's also the chemical
messenger for serotonin.
And serotonin is what
regulates all the other glands
of the body to respond
to the environment.
So by stimulating
this area, which
was also known as the third
eye in some traditions.
>> It heightens awareness.
And in fact, in
Aramaic, it was referred
to as the nazar or the
third eye, the brow.
And this is what we believe was
really the origin of the word
Nazarene.
So Jesus the Nazarene
would have been
Jesus with an open
third eye, basically.
>> Of all the things that
the Templars recovered,
rediscovered when the
order rose to prominence,
the secrets of alchemy are
absolutely the Golden Prize,
if you will.
But these secrets of
alchemy were the power
that really allowed
them to become
so powerful and successful.
I'm convinced of it.
>> And they were universal.
It allowed them to
associate with groups
all over the world who also
had these secret practices.
I mean, you can't think of a
further, more closed off place
during the time of the Templars
than Tibet, for example.
And even in Tibet, we
find the famous mantra,
"Om mani padme hum."
Om representing the
word of creation,
mani being the precious jewel,
which is the white stone,
the manna.
Padme being what
was the crown chakra
or the opening of the head
in the Kabbalistic tradition,
referred to as kether.
And hum was the completion.
So truly by obtaining
this precious white stone,
this manna, you were
able to overcome,
just like revelation says, this
is what the Tibetan stuff says.
And this is what
the Grail tradition
has also said, of which the
Templars were the guardians.
But ultimately,
the purpose of this
was to allow us to be in
harmony with our environment,
with the universal order, with
each other, with the animals,
and the other people around us.
And it was believed if you were
able to be in this harmony,
then everything else
would fall into place.
Government structure
could fall into place.
Democracy could work.
The power of the
individual could shine.
And freedom could
be truly expressed.
>> So it's pretty clear to me
that alchemy gave the Templars
the science of Atlantis, which
they then took and applied
in both old and new ways.
>> Yeah, this was definitely
one of the secrets,
the royal secret, if you
will, that had been passed
on by the Templars.
Thank you for watching
this episode of Mysteries
of the Knights Templar.
[MUSIC PLAYING]